# Master's Thesis LaTeX Template <br> (*FMPI, Comenius University, Cognitive Science*)

This is a master's thesis LaTeX template primarily intended for students of the international master's program 
in cognitive science ([MEi:CogSci](https://cogsci.fmph.uniba.sk/meicogsciba/)) at the Faculty of Mathematics, 
Physics and Informatics of Comenius University Bratislava.

The template was adapted and translated from the 
[Bachelor's Computer Science template](https://bbrejova.github.io/bcdav/LaTeX_pre_bakal%C3%A1rsku_pr%C3%A1cu.html) 
and complies with the university's official thesis formatting directives
(i.e., [Internal directive CU 32/2023](https://zona.fmph.uniba.sk/fileadmin/ruk/legislativa/2023/Vp_2023_32.pdf)
and its [Appendices 1 and 2](https://zona.fmph.uniba.sk/fileadmin/ruk/legislativa/2023/Vp_2023_32_prilohy.pdf)).

This repository stores and maintains the official source code for the 
[Overleaf LaTeX template](https://www.overleaf.com/latex/templates/masters-thesis-template-fmpi-comenius-university-cognitive-science/qhrtysmtvdfx).


## Why use this template?

While typesetting in LaTeX can feel confusing and overwhelming at first, it is a highly valuable academic skill, 
especially in formal and natural sciences. This template is designed to guide you through the process of writing 
your thesis in LaTeX, demonstrating best formatting practices to yield a clean, print- and submission-ready PDF.

To save you some time, the template is semi-automated, pre-formatted, and somewhat stylistically opinionated: 
while the university prescribes only a few hard formatting rules, we have pre-configured the rest to ensure 
that it looks clean and works out of the box. However, you are entirely free to modify the styles and settings 
to suit your preferences.

Please note that this template does not intend to advise you on the content or other more sophisticated aspects;
you should discuss these with your supervisor and the relevant faculty. Moreover, while you can copy the style and 
formatting rules introduced here into other formats (e.g., MS Word), this template is limited to the LaTeX 
typesetting and does not provide assistance with other formats.


## How do I use it

The template is structured as follows:
```
├── assignments                         // EN and SK assignments for your thesis generated by AIS
│   ├── assignment-en.pdf
│   └── assignment-sk.pdf
│
├── figures                             // Images, plots, charts, diagrams, photos
│
├── lists
│   ├── acronyms.tex                    // Defines List of Abbreviations
│   └── symbols.tex                     // Defines Summary of Notation
│
├── preambles                           // Additional settings and automation
│   ├── doc-info.tex                    // Details about your thesis
│   ├── formatting.tex                  // Formatting automation
│   ├── math.tex                        // Math shortcuts
│   ├── references.tex                  // Bibliography settings
│   └── toc.tex                         // Table of contents and list settings
│
├── sections                            // Actual content
│   ├── cover.tex                       // Thesis cover page
│   ├── front.tex                       // Thesis front page
│   ├── declaration.tex                 // Declaration of honor
│   ├── acks.tex                        // Acknowledgements
│   ├── abstracts.tex
│   ├── intro.tex                       // Pre-defined introduction
│   ├── conclusion.tex                  // Pre-defined conclusion
│   ├── appendixA.tex                   // Example appendices
│   ├── appendixB.tex
│   └── appendixC.tex
│
├── main.tex                            // The main file connecting everything together
├── references.bib                      // List of BibTeX references
└── README.md                           // This file
```

To start, just follow these steps:
1. Fill in the information in `preambles/doc-info.tex`.

2. Download the thesis assignments from AIS in both English and Slovak, and put them in `assignments/`, 
   replacing the placeholders there. Rename your assignment PDFs so they match the filenames of the placeholders.

3. Start structuring your thesis. Make a new blank `.tex` file in `sections/` for each main chapter of your thesis, 
   such as introduction, preliminaries, prior work, methods, results, discussion, and conclusion. You can generally start
   with the [IMRaD structure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IMRAD) and adjust it together with your supervisor for 
   your purposes. The example unnumbered introduction and conclusion chapters are already created in this template.

4. Navigate to the `Main content` section of `main.tex` near the end of the file, and connect each of the newly created
   chapter files to the main document according to the instructions there. The `\input{}` command basically copy-pastes
   all the content from the specific file into that exact spot in `main.tex`. While you can just put everything in one 
   file, it is a better practice to divide the document into multiple files, so you can maintain chapters/sections
   more easily.

5. In the `Appendices` at the bottom of `main.tex`, link/unlink/add more appendix files, if you need to.

6. Navigate to `sections/chapter.tex` and the corresponding chapter in the rendered PDF for a (relatively) brief 
   tutorial on how to use LaTeX. Don't forget to unlink it in `main.tex`, once you've gone through it.

7. Fill your chapter files with the content. While writing, store your references in `references.bib` in the BibTeX
   format. All the well-behaved citation managers and conference/journal websites are able to generate BibTeX 
   references. If you want it to look pretty, you can use, for example, [JabRef](https://jabref.org/) to edit `references.bib`.

8. Write your thesis abstracts and put them in `abstracts.tex`.

9. If you want to include the declaration of honor and the acknowledgments, edit `sections/declaration.tex` 
   and `sections/acks.tex` accordingly. If you don't want to include them, comment out the corresponding lines
   in the `Declaration and acknowledgments` section of `main.tex`.

10. If you used abbreviations and/or extensive mathematical notation as per the tutorial and would like to 
    display the respective List of Abbreviations and Summary of Notation, navigate to the `Lists` section in `main.tex` 
    and make sure the two corresponding `\input` lines are uncommented. Comment them out to hide the lists.
